" window split
nnoremap <leader>ws <C-W><C-S>
nnoremap <leader>wv <C-W><C-V>

" window split new
nnoremap <leader>wns :new<CR>
nnoremap <leader>wnv :vnew<CR>

" window resize
nnoremap <leader>wwr <C-W>=
nnoremap <leader>wwv <C-W>_
nnoremap <leader>wwh <C-W><bar>




index({object}, {expr} [, {start} [, {ic}]])
				Number	index in {object} where {expr} appears
substitute({expr}, {pat}, {sub}, {flags})
				String	all {pat} in {expr} replaced with {sub}
string({expr})			String	String representation of {expr} value
strlen({expr})			Number	length of the String {expr}
str2float({expr} [, {quoted}])	Float	convert String to Float
str2list({expr} [, {utf8}])	List	convert each character of {expr} to
					ASCII/UTF-8 value
str2nr({expr} [, {base} [, {quoted}]])
				Number	convert String to Number
tolower({expr})			String	the String {expr} switched to lowercase
toupper({expr})			String	the String {expr} switched to uppercase
tr({src}, {fromstr}, {tostr})	String	translate chars of {src} in {fromstr}
					to chars in {tostr}
trim({text} [, {mask} [, {dir}]])
				String	trim characters in {mask} from {text}
trunc({expr})			Float	truncate Float {expr}
type({expr})			Number	type of value {expr}

getbufline({buf}, {lnum} [, {end}])
				List	lines {lnum} to {end} of buffer {buf}
getbufvar({buf}, {varname} [, {def}])
				any	variable {varname} in buffer {buf}
getbufinfo([{buf}])		List	information about buffers

keys({dict})			List	keys in {dict}
has_key({dict}, {key})		Number	|TRUE| if {dict} has entry {key}
reverse({list})			List	reverse {list} in-place
remove({dict}, {key})		any	remove entry {key} from {dict}
remove({list}, {idx} [, {end}])	any/List
					remove items {idx}-{end} from {list}
split({expr} [, {pat} [, {keepempty}]])
				List	make |List| from {pat} separated {expr}
slice({expr}, {start} [, {end}])  String, List or Blob
					slice of a String, List or Blob
sort({list} [, {func} [, {dict}]])
				List	sort {list}, using {func} to compare
repeat({expr}, {count})		String	repeat {expr} {count} times
map({expr1}, {expr2})		List/Dict/Blob/String
					change each item in {expr1} to {expr2}
reduce({object}, {func} [, {initial}])
				any	reduce {object} using {func}
filter({expr1}, {expr2})	List/Dict/Blob/String
					remove items from {expr1} where
uniq({list} [, {func} [, {dict}]])
				List	remove adjacent duplicates from a list
values({dict})			List	values in {dict}


tempname()			String	name for a temporary file

popup_atcursor({what}, {options}) Number create popup window near the cursor
popup_beval({what}, {options})	Number	create popup window for 'ballooneval'
popup_clear()			none	close all popup windows
popup_close({id} [, {result}])	none	close popup window {id}
popup_create({what}, {options}) Number	create a popup window
popup_dialog({what}, {options}) Number	create a popup window used as a dialog
popup_filter_menu({id}, {key})  Number	filter for a menu popup window
popup_filter_yesno({id}, {key}) Number	filter for a dialog popup window
popup_findinfo()		Number	get window ID of info popup window
popup_findpreview()		Number	get window ID of preview popup window
popup_getoptions({id})		Dict	get options of popup window {id}
popup_getpos({id})		Dict	get position of popup window {id}
popup_hide({id})		none	hide popup menu {id}
popup_list()			List	get a list of window IDs of all popups
popup_locate({row}, {col})	Number	get window ID of popup at position
popup_menu({what}, {options})	Number	create a popup window used as a menu
popup_move({id}, {options})	none	set position of popup window {id}
popup_notification({what}, {options})
				Number	create a notification popup window
popup_setoptions({id}, {options})
				none	set options for popup window {id}
popup_settext({id}, {text})	none	set the text of popup window {id}
popup_show({id})		none	unhide popup window {id}


expand({string} [, {nosuf} [, {list}]])				*expand()*
		Expand wildcards and the following special keywords in
		{string}.  'wildignorecase' applies.

		If {list} is given and it is |TRUE|, a List will be returned.
		Otherwise the result is a String and when there are several
		matches, they are separated by <NL> characters.  [Note: in
		version 5.0 a space was used, which caused problems when a
		file name contains a space]

		If the expansion fails, the result is an empty string.  A name
		for a non-existing file is not included, unless {string} does
		not start with '%', '#' or '<', see below.

		When {string} starts with '%', '#' or '<', the expansion is
		done like for the |cmdline-special| variables with their
		associated modifiers.  Here is a short overview:

			%		current file name
			#		alternate file name
			#n		alternate file name n
			<cfile>		file name under the cursor
			<afile>		autocmd file name
			<abuf>		autocmd buffer number (as a String!)
			<amatch>	autocmd matched name
			<cexpr>		C expression under the cursor
			<sfile>		sourced script file or function name
			<slnum>		sourced script line number or function
					line number
			<sflnum>	script file line number, also when in
					a function
			<SID>		"<SNR>123_"  where "123" is the
					current script ID  |<SID>|
			<stack>		call stack
			<cword>		word under the cursor
			<cWORD>		WORD under the cursor
			<client>	the {clientid} of the last received
					message |server2client()|
		Modifiers:
			:p		expand to full path
			:h		head (last path component removed)
			:t		tail (last path component only)
			:r		root (one extension removed)
			:e		extension only

		Example: >
			:let &tags = expand("%:p:h") . "/tags"
<		Note that when expanding a string that starts with '%', '#' or
		'<', any following text is ignored.  This does NOT work: >
			:let doesntwork = expand("%:h.bak")
<		Use this: >
			:let doeswork = expand("%:h") . ".bak"
<		Also note that expanding "<cfile>" and others only returns the
		referenced file name without further expansion.  If "<cfile>"
		is "~/.cshrc", you need to do another expand() to have the
		"~/" expanded into the path of the home directory: >
			:echo expand(expand("<cfile>"))
<
		There cannot be white space between the variables and the
		following modifier.  The |fnamemodify()| function can be used
		to modify normal file names.

		When using '%' or '#', and the current or alternate file name
		is not defined, an empty string is used.  Using "%:p" in a
		buffer with no name, results in the current directory, with a
		'/' added.

		When {string} does not start with '%', '#' or '<', it is
		expanded like a file name is expanded on the command line.
		'suffixes' and 'wildignore' are used, unless the optional
		{nosuf} argument is given and it is |TRUE|.
		Names for non-existing files are included.  The "**" item can
		be used to search in a directory tree.  For example, to find
		all "README" files in the current directory and below: >
			:echo expand("**/README")
<
		expand() can also be used to expand variables and environment
		variables that are only known in a shell.  But this can be
		slow, because a shell may be used to do the expansion.  See
		|expr-env-expand|.
		The expanded variable is still handled like a list of file
		names.  When an environment variable cannot be expanded, it is
		left unchanged.  Thus ":echo expand('$FOOBAR')" results in
		"$FOOBAR".

		See |glob()| for finding existing files.  See |system()| for
		getting the raw output of an external command.

		Can also be used as a |method|: >
			Getpattern()->expand()


insert({object}, {item} [, {idx}])			*insert()*
		When {object} is a |List| or a |Blob| insert {item} at the start
		of it.

		If {idx} is specified insert {item} before the item with index
		{idx}.  If {idx} is zero it goes before the first item, just
		like omitting {idx}.  A negative {idx} is also possible, see
		|list-index|.  -1 inserts just before the last item.

		Returns the resulting |List| or |Blob|.  Examples: >
			:let mylist = insert([2, 3, 5], 1)
			:call insert(mylist, 4, -1)
			:call insert(mylist, 6, len(mylist))
<		The last example can be done simpler with |add()|.
		Note that when {item} is a |List| it is inserted as a single
		item.  Use |extend()| to concatenate |Lists|.

		Can also be used as a |method|: >
			mylist->insert(item)

items({dict})						*items()*
		Return a |List| with all the key-value pairs of {dict}.  Each
		|List| item is a list with two items: the key of a {dict}
		entry and the value of this entry.  The |List| is in arbitrary
		order.  Also see |keys()| and |values()|.
		Example: >
			for [key, value] in items(mydict)
			   echo key . ': ' . value
			endfor

<		Can also be used as a |method|: >
			mydict->items()

join({list} [, {sep}])					*join()*
		Join the items in {list} together into one String.
		When {sep} is specified it is put in between the items.  If
		{sep} is omitted a single space is used.
		Note that {sep} is not added at the end.  You might want to
		add it there too: >
			let lines = join(mylist, "\n") . "\n"
<		String items are used as-is.  |Lists| and |Dictionaries| are
		converted into a string like with |string()|.
		The opposite function is |split()|.

		Can also be used as a |method|: >
			mylist->join()

map({expr1}, {expr2})					*map()*
		{expr1} must be a |List|, |String|, |Blob| or |Dictionary|.
		When {expr1} is a |List|| or |Dictionary|, replace each
		item in {expr1} with the result of evaluating {expr2}.
		For a |Blob| each byte is replaced.
		For a |String|, each character, including composing
		characters, is replaced.
		If the item type changes you may want to use |mapnew()| to
		create a new List or Dictionary.  This is required when using
		Vim9 script.

		{expr2} must be a |String| or |Funcref|.

		If {expr2} is a |String|, inside {expr2} |v:val| has the value
		of the current item.  For a |Dictionary| |v:key| has the key
		of the current item and for a |List| |v:key| has the index of
		the current item.  For a |Blob| |v:key| has the index of the
		current byte. For a |String| |v:key| has the index of the
		current character.
		Example: >
			:call map(mylist, '"> " . v:val . " <"')
<		This puts "> " before and " <" after each item in "mylist".

		Note that {expr2} is the result of an expression and is then
		used as an expression again.  Often it is good to use a
		|literal-string| to avoid having to double backslashes.  You
		still have to double ' quotes

		If {expr2} is a |Funcref| it is called with two arguments:
			1. The key or the index of the current item.
			2. the value of the current item.
		The function must return the new value of the item. Example
		that changes each value by "key-value": >
			func KeyValue(key, val)
			  return a:key . '-' . a:val
			endfunc
			call map(myDict, function('KeyValue'))
<		It is shorter when using a |lambda|: >
			call map(myDict, {key, val -> key . '-' . val})
<		If you do not use "val" you can leave it out: >
			call map(myDict, {key -> 'item: ' . key})
<		If you do not use "key" you can use a short name: >
			call map(myDict, {_, val -> 'item: ' . val})
<
		The operation is done in-place for a |List| and |Dictionary|.
		If you want it to remain unmodified make a copy first: >
			:let tlist = map(copy(mylist), ' v:val . "\t"')

<		Returns {expr1}, the |List| or |Dictionary| that was filtered,
		or a new |Blob| or |String|.
		When an error is encountered while evaluating {expr2} no
		further items in {expr1} are processed.
		When {expr2} is a Funcref errors inside a function are ignored,
		unless it was defined with the "abort" flag.

		Can also be used as a |method|: >
			mylist->map(expr2)


reduce({object}, {func} [, {initial}])			*reduce()* *E998*
		{func} is called for every item in {object}, which can be a
		|String|, |List| or a |Blob|.  {func} is called with two
		arguments: the result so far and current item.  After
		processing all items the result is returned.

		{initial} is the initial result.  When omitted, the first item
		in {object} is used and {func} is first called for the second
		item.  If {initial} is not given and {object} is empty no
		result can be computed, an E998 error is given.

		Examples: >
			echo reduce([1, 3, 5], { acc, val -> acc + val })
			echo reduce(['x', 'y'], { acc, val -> acc .. val }, 'a')
			echo reduce(0z1122, { acc, val -> 2 * acc + val })
			echo reduce('xyz', { acc, val -> acc .. ',' .. val })
<
		Can also be used as a |method|: >
			echo mylist->reduce({ acc, val -> acc + val }, 0)

								*search()*
search({pattern} [, {flags} [, {stopline} [, {timeout} [, {skip}]]]])
		Search for regexp pattern {pattern}.  The search starts at the
		cursor position (you can use |cursor()| to set it).

		When a match has been found its line number is returned.
		If there is no match a 0 is returned and the cursor doesn't
		move.  No error message is given.

		{flags} is a String, which can contain these character flags:
		'b'	search Backward instead of forward
		'c'	accept a match at the Cursor position
		'e'	move to the End of the match
		'n'	do Not move the cursor
		'p'	return number of matching sub-Pattern (see below)
		's'	Set the ' mark at the previous location of the cursor
		'w'	Wrap around the end of the file
		'W'	don't Wrap around the end of the file
		'z'	start searching at the cursor column instead of zero
		If neither 'w' or 'W' is given, the 'wrapscan' option applies.

		If the 's' flag is supplied, the ' mark is set, only if the
		cursor is moved. The 's' flag cannot be combined with the 'n'
		flag.

		'ignorecase', 'smartcase' and 'magic' are used.

		When the 'z' flag is not given, forward searching always
		starts in column zero and then matches before the cursor are
		skipped.  When the 'c' flag is present in 'cpo' the next
		search starts after the match.  Without the 'c' flag the next
		search starts one column further.  This matters for
		overlapping matches.
		When searching backwards and the 'z' flag is given then the
		search starts in column zero, thus no match in the current
		line will be found (unless wrapping around the end of the
		file).

		When the {stopline} argument is given then the search stops
		after searching this line.  This is useful to restrict the
		search to a range of lines.  Examples: >
			let match = search('(', 'b', line("w0"))
			let end = search('END', '', line("w$"))
<		When {stopline} is used and it is not zero this also implies
		that the search does not wrap around the end of the file.
		A zero value is equal to not giving the argument.

		When the {timeout} argument is given the search stops when
		more than this many milliseconds have passed.  Thus when
		{timeout} is 500 the search stops after half a second.
		The value must not be negative.  A zero value is like not
		giving the argument.
		{only available when compiled with the |+reltime| feature}

		If the {skip} expression is given it is evaluated with the
		cursor positioned on the start of a match.  If it evaluates to
		non-zero this match is skipped.  This can be used, for
		example, to skip a match in a comment or a string.
		{skip} can be a string, which is evaluated as an expression, a
		function reference or a lambda.
		When {skip} is omitted or empty, every match is accepted.
		When evaluating {skip} causes an error the search is aborted
		and -1 returned.
							*search()-sub-match*
		With the 'p' flag the returned value is one more than the
		first sub-match in \(\).  One if none of them matched but the
		whole pattern did match.
		To get the column number too use |searchpos()|.

		The cursor will be positioned at the match, unless the 'n'
		flag is used.

		Example (goes over all files in the argument list): >
		    :let n = 1
		    :while n <= argc()	    " loop over all files in arglist
		    :  exe "argument " . n
		    :  " start at the last char in the file and wrap for the
		    :  " first search to find match at start of file
		    :  normal G$
		    :  let flags = "w"
		    :  while search("foo", flags) > 0
		    :	 s/foo/bar/g
		    :	 let flags = "W"
		    :  endwhile
		    :  update		    " write the file if modified
		    :  let n = n + 1
		    :endwhile
<
		Example for using some flags: >
		    :echo search('\<if\|\(else\)\|\(endif\)', 'ncpe')
<		This will search for the keywords "if", "else", and "endif"
		under or after the cursor.  Because of the 'p' flag, it
		returns 1, 2, or 3 depending on which keyword is found, or 0
		if the search fails.  With the cursor on the first word of the
		line:
		    if (foo == 0) | let foo = foo + 1 | endif ~
		the function returns 1.  Without the 'c' flag, the function
		finds the "endif" and returns 3.  The same thing happens
		without the 'e' flag if the cursor is on the "f" of "if".
		The 'n' flag tells the function not to move the cursor.

		Can also be used as a |method|: >
			GetPattern()->search()


match({expr}, {pat} [, {start} [, {count}]])			*match()*
		When {expr} is a |List| then this returns the index of the
		first item where {pat} matches.  Each item is used as a
		String, |Lists| and |Dictionaries| are used as echoed.

		Otherwise, {expr} is used as a String.  The result is a
		Number, which gives the index (byte offset) in {expr} where
		{pat} matches.

		A match at the first character or |List| item returns zero.
		If there is no match -1 is returned.

		For getting submatches see |matchlist()|.
		Example: >
			:echo match("testing", "ing")	" results in 4
			:echo match([1, 'x'], '\a')	" results in 1
<		See |string-match| for how {pat} is used.
								*strpbrk()*
		Vim doesn't have a strpbrk() function.  But you can do: >
			:let sepidx = match(line, '[.,;: \t]')
<								*strcasestr()*
		Vim doesn't have a strcasestr() function.  But you can add
		"\c" to the pattern to ignore case: >
			:let idx = match(haystack, '\cneedle')
<
		If {start} is given, the search starts from byte index
		{start} in a String or item {start} in a |List|.
		The result, however, is still the index counted from the
		first character/item.  Example: >
			:echo match("testing", "ing", 2)
<		result is again "4". >
			:echo match("testing", "ing", 4)
<		result is again "4". >
			:echo match("testing", "t", 2)
<		result is "3".
		For a String, if {start} > 0 then it is like the string starts
		{start} bytes later, thus "^" will match at {start}.  Except
		when {count} is given, then it's like matches before the
		{start} byte are ignored (this is a bit complicated to keep it
		backwards compatible).
		For a String, if {start} < 0, it will be set to 0.  For a list
		the index is counted from the end.
		If {start} is out of range ({start} > strlen({expr}) for a
		String or {start} > len({expr}) for a |List|) -1 is returned.

		When {count} is given use the {count}'th match.  When a match
		is found in a String the search for the next one starts one
		character further.  Thus this example results in 1: >
			echo match("testing", "..", 0, 2)
<		In a |List| the search continues in the next item.
		Note that when {count} is added the way {start} works changes,
		see above.

		See |pattern| for the patterns that are accepted.
		The 'ignorecase' option is used to set the ignore-caseness of
		the pattern.  'smartcase' is NOT used.  The matching is always
		done like 'magic' is set and 'cpoptions' is empty.
		Note that a match at the start is preferred, thus when the
		pattern is using "*" (any number of matches) it tends to find
		zero matches at the start instead of a number of matches
		further down in the text.

		Can also be used as a |method|: >
			GetText()->match('word')
			GetList()->match('word')

4. Matching a pattern in a String			*string-match*

This is common between several functions.  A regexp pattern as explained at
|pattern| is normally used to find a match in the buffer lines.  When a
pattern is used to find a match in a String, almost everything works in the
same way.  The difference is that a String is handled like it is one line.
When it contains a "\n" character, this is not seen as a line break for the
pattern.  It can be matched with a "\n" in the pattern, or with ".".  Example:
>
	:let a = "aaaa\nxxxx"
	:echo matchstr(a, "..\n..")
	aa
	xx
	:echo matchstr(a, "a.x")
	a
	x

Don't forget that "^" will only match at the first character of the String and
"$" at the last character of the string.  They don't match after or before a
"\n".

 vim:tw=78:ts=8:noet:ft=help:norl:


```bash
~ ❯ curl -s "https://get.sdkman.io" | bash

You are subscribed to the STABLE channel.

Please open a new terminal, or run the following in the existing one:

    source "/home/widehyo/.sdkman/bin/sdkman-init.sh"

Then issue the following command:

    sdk help

Enjoy!!!

~ took 6s ❯ source /home/widehyo/.sdkman/bin/sdkman-init.sh

~ ❯ sdk help

NAME
    sdk - The command line interface (CLI) for SDKMAN!

SYNOPSIS
    sdk <subcommand> [candidate] [version]

DESCRIPTION
    SDKMAN! is a tool for managing parallel versions of multiple JVM related
    Software Development Kits on most Unix based systems. It provides a
    convenient Command Line Interface (CLI) and API for installing, switching,
    removing and listing Candidates.

SUBCOMMANDS & QUALIFIERS
    help         [subcommand]
    install      <candidate> [version] [path]
    uninstall    <candidate> <version>
    list         [candidate]
    use          <candidate> <version>
    config       no qualifier
    default      <candidate> [version]
    home         <candidate> <version>
    env          [init|install|clear]
    current      [candidate]
    upgrade      [candidate]
    version      no qualifier
    offline      [enable|disable]
    selfupdate   [force]
    update       no qualifier
    flush        [tmp|metadata|version]

EXAMPLES
    sdk install java 17.0.0-tem
    sdk help install
```
utils/kotlin-2.1.10/kotlin-native on  main [✘!+?] via 🅶 via ☕ v11.0.26 took 58s ❯ sdk install java

Downloading: java 21.0.6-tem

In progress...

########################################################################################################################################################################################################## 100.0%

Repackaging Java 21.0.6-tem...

Done repackaging...

Installing: java 21.0.6-tem
Done installing!


Setting java 21.0.6-tem as default.

utils/kotlin-2.1.10/kotlin-native on  main [✘!+?] via 🅶 via ☕ v21.0.6 took 43s ❯ java --version
openjdk 21.0.6 2025-01-21 LTS
OpenJDK Runtime Environment Temurin-21.0.6+7 (build 21.0.6+7-LTS)
OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM Temurin-21.0.6+7 (build 21.0.6+7-LTS, mixed mode, sharing)

utils/kotlin-2.1.10/kotlin-native on  main [✘!+?] via 🅶 via ☕ v21.0.6 ❯ sdk install kotlin

Downloading: kotlin 2.1.10

In progress...

########################################################################################################################################################################################################## 100.0%

Installing: kotlin 2.1.10
Done installing!


Setting kotlin 2.1.10 as default.

utils/kotlin-2.1.10/kotlin-native on  main [✘!+?] via 🅶 via ☕ v21.0.6 ❯ kotlinc -version
info: kotlinc-jvm 2.1.10 (JRE 21.0.6+7-LTS)
utils/kotlin-2.1.10/kotlin-native on  main [✘!+?] via 🅶 via ☕ v21.0.6 took 15s ❯


2025/03/09 on  main [✘!+?] via 🅺 v2.1.10 ❯ ll
total 28
-rw-r--r-- 1 widehyo widehyo 23136 Mar  9 23:20 20250309.md
-rw-r--r-- 1 widehyo widehyo    52 Mar  9 23:21 hello.kt

2025/03/09 on  main [✘!+?] via 🅺 v2.1.10 ❯ kotlinc hello.kt

2025/03/09 on  main [✘!+?] via ☕ v21.0.6 via 🅺 v2.1.10 took 3s ❯ ll
total 36
-rw-r--r-- 1 widehyo widehyo 23136 Mar  9 23:20 20250309.md
-rw-r--r-- 1 widehyo widehyo   644 Mar  9 23:21 HelloKt.class
drwxr-xr-x 2 widehyo widehyo  4096 Mar  9 23:21 META-INF/
-rw-r--r-- 1 widehyo widehyo    52 Mar  9 23:21 hello.kt

2025/03/09 on  main [✘!+?] via ☕ v21.0.6 via 🅺 v2.1.10 ❯ kotlinc hello.kt -include-runtime -d hello.jar

2025/03/09 on  main [✘!+?] via ☕ v21.0.6 via 🅺 v2.1.10 took 4s ❯ ll
total 4700
-rw-r--r-- 1 widehyo widehyo   23136 Mar  9 23:20 20250309.md
-rw-r--r-- 1 widehyo widehyo     644 Mar  9 23:21 HelloKt.class
drwxr-xr-x 2 widehyo widehyo    4096 Mar  9 23:21 META-INF/
-rw-r--r-- 1 widehyo widehyo 4772384 Mar  9 23:21 hello.jar

hello.kt
```kt
fun main() {
    println("Hello, Kotlin in WSL!")
}
```

2025/03/09 on  main [✘!+?] via ☕ v21.0.6 via 🅺 v2.1.10 ❯ java -jar hello.jar
Hello, Kotlin in WSL!
-rw-r--r-- 1 widehyo widehyo      52 Mar  9 23:21 hello.kt
